# Data_Visualization_challenge

## Pymaceuticals
The Pymaceuticals folder contains the main script, and a folder with the data analyzed using the
main script. 

### Main Script
The [Pymaceuticals mainscript](https://github.com/EdGonz44/Data_Visualization_challenge/blob/main/Pymaceuticals/pymaceuticals_mainscript.ipynb) collects the data from the files stored in the data file and performs a statistical analysis on the study results of the drug regimens effectiveness on treating tumor growths. The main script then produces a series of charts that allow for a deeper investigation into the effectiveness of certain "successful" drug regimens, specifically Capomulin. Further detail into what the charts depict and their significance is described in the "analysis" portion of the main script. The analysis is also written in this README for ease of access.

### Data
The data folder contains files on the [Metadata of the mice](https://github.com/EdGonz44/Data_Visualization_challenge/blob/main/Pymaceuticals/data/Mouse_metadata.csv) used in this experiment , and the [Study Results](https://github.com/EdGonz44/Data_Visualization_challenge/blob/main/Pymaceuticals/data/Study_results.csv) of the mice.

### Analysis
- The data collected for this analysis recorded the results of an assortment of cancer treatment regimens applied to multiple groups of lab mice. The qualitative characteristics of each mice were recorded before actually undergoing their designated treatment; including: weight, sex, age, and an assigned ID code. This data was then merged with the data collected on each mouse’s: tumor volume (mm3) at certain timepoints (days), the apparent metastatic sites, and the regimen they were undertaking.
- Using the given data, a summary statistics chart was made that described the mean, median, variance, standard deviation, and standard error of the mean for tumor volumes recorded within each drug regimen. The summary statistics data showed that drug regimens Capomulin and Ramicane had the smallest averages in tumor  volume compared to the other drug regimens. The other drug regimens all experienced a similar average tumor volume difference of around 10 (mm3). This would imply that Capomulin and Ramicane were more effective in treating the onset cancer growth, due to their mice experiencing a reduced growth rate in their tumors. 
- In order to check against the possibility that the success of these drug regimens was a result of a lack of data, bar charts were created to determine how many data recordings were made within each drug regimen.  The size of the bar charts depicts how many observed mouse timepoints were found in each regimen, which would allow us to visualize how long the mice were observed while undergoing each regimen. A larger bar would mean the mice were observed for a longer period of time, whereas a smaller bar would mean that the mice were observed for a shorter period of time. This is significant due to the fact that if the tumors grew to a certain threshold, it would not make sense to continue recording data on that particular mouse as the tumor had grown to an unacceptable size. On the other hand, if the tumor continued to be under this threshold, it would make sense to continue to record data on that particular tumor in order to see if it continues to stabilize over time. Given this context, the bar charts confirm the assumption that Capomulin and Ramicane were effective treatments as they both contained more observed mouse timepoints than the other drug regimens. Therefore, their effectiveness can not be disqualified by a lack of data.
- For additional demographic information, a pie chart was made that described the sex distribution of the mouse population used in these drug trials. The pie chart describes a roughly half split in male and female mice within the population. This would imply that, so long as the groups made for each regimen were populated with similar male to female ratios,  the drug regimens effectiveness would not be sex specific. That is to say, the results of the treatment would not be affected by the possibility that the drug may be more or less effective due to an unforeseen reaction to the sex of the mice.
- A box plot was created in order to demonstrate the possibility of outliers in the data. The box plot depicts the distribution of the final tumor volumes for the Capomulin, Ramicane, Infubinol, and Ceftamin regimens. The reason these regimens were used was to display how the two effective regimens would compare to two of the less effective regimens. Out of these regimens, only one outlier was found, which belonged to the Infubinol regimen. It would be prudent to point out that the Capomulin and Ramicane did not experience any outliers which lends more credibility to the results of these two regimens.
- In order to dive even deeper into the credibility of the successful regimens, a line graph depicting the Capomulin treatment of mouse l509 was made. This line graph shows how the tumor volume of mouse l509 increased, or decreased, over time after they were given the treatment. The line graph shows that while the tumor continued to grow for twenty days (an increase of around 3  (mm3)), it then began to fall  by around 8 (mm3)  over the course of the next fifteen days. Afterwards, it then began to experience tumor growth again. This graph would then imply that an actual significant reduction in tumor size was made as a result of the Capomulin treatment. If the other mice in this regimen experienced a similar situation, it would explain why the overall regimen had smaller average tumor volume in comparison to the other treatments, for the other treatments may not have been able to slow or reverse the growth of the tumors at all. 
- A broader investigation into the Capomulin group involved creating a scatter plot that depicted the correlation and regression of the weight of the mice versus the average tumor volume.  The purpose of this chart is to determine if mouse weight had an affect on the average tumor volume. The correlation between these two values was calculated to be 0.84, which would mean that there is a strong correlation between mouse weight and average tumor volume. The line regression confirms this by allowing us to see a distinct trend in how the greater the weight of a mouse, the greater the average tumor volume it would have. This would mean that the tumor size for each mouse was strongly associated with that mouse’s weight, and therefore a heavier mouse would have a larger tumor and vice versa. In relation to our determination of the effectiveness of the Capomulin group, it would be helpful to conduct more of these correlation calculations for the other drug regimens. If the other drug regimens had similar correlations, it would solidify the fact that weight affects tumor size; but, if they had weak correlations, then it would imply that the tumors were growing out of control in those regimen groups. This would imply that  the correlation between tumor volume and mouse weight was made possible by the Capomulin regulating the growth of these tumors, which would give further proof of its effectiveness.


